[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, and welcome to
the "World of Wisdom."
My name is Linda Rachel and
I'll be your host today.
On the "World of Wisdom,"
we are fortunate to have
many wonderful
authors come to share
their vision of the world,
and the visions that they have
written within their own books.
Today, we have as our special
guest Michel Labréche.
Michel, it's nice
to have you with us.
>> Thank you.
>> Michel, your book has
a very interesting title.
It's called "The Wizard of Us."
>> Yes.
>> Is this wizard different
from the Wizard of Oz?
>> Well, it's a bit similar.
The things that I chose to call
the book "The Wizard of Us"
because "us" can stand
for the person itself,
like we all possess a
wizard inside ourself.
It can stand for United States.
US.
And it's a play on words
with the Wizard of Oz.
Because as I see it,
in that great movie,
you had all the
basic characteristics
of the witch, and
Dorothy, and you
had the Tin Man,
and the Scarecrow,
and the Lion, which
each represent
a principle of the human
nature, which would be
like the courage for the Lion.
And for the Scarecrow, it
would be the intelligence.
And for the Tin Man, it would
be like the heart or the soul.
>> That's right.
So many of those
things are important.
And within movies, and
in books, and in videos,
we need to see what those
challenges are for us in life.
>> That's right.
>> And so in your own book
here, what is the wizard?
How do you define the wizard?
>> Well, a wizard is a
person, because it's addressed
to people.
It's a person that can
access inner magic.
And inner magic
would be the ability
of tapping into your own
source, and to become
a creator yourself.
So whenever you
achieve something,
whenever you break a
barrier that restrains you,
at one point, you
become a wizard
because you are somebody
that seek out and go further
than what was there
before you yourself
and people representing you.
>> Do you think it's important
for children to have mentors
to show them the
wizard within them?
>> Yes, because the children,
they possess this at a very
high level.
And usually, what happened
during our life is that we are
so much being ruled, and
restrained, and conditioned,
that at one point, when you
become a full-grown person--
when you're, let's
say, 20 to 25--
then you don't
recollect being a wizard
yourself, because
everything you have learned
has been at one point
been conditioned.
>> You grew up in Canada.
>> That's right.
>> And did you have many mentors
within your own life that
brought you to understand
the wizard within you?
>> No, it was more
of a personal quest,
because things happened to me
throughout my life since I was
a young kid.
And at that point, I began
reading scientific texts.
All those kind of
articles that talks
about the body,
the mind, the soul.
But today, we're in 1998.
There's not much 20
years ago that used
to be printed on those matters.
There was some beginning of
understanding of evolution,
but not that much.
But I kept going and going.
And at one point,
I began the book.
I was the book.
I realized that.
So I said, well, I have
to write it down and try
to make some resonance
with other people,
and so they will
be able to read it,
and they will have their
own verification with what
I'm saying.
>> Do you feel like that most
of us have a book within us that
needs to be written?
>> Most probably.
Yeah.
Each and everybody has
a unique experience.
And the only thing
is that if you
have the ability of really
making the formulation
and to write it down
into something--
a text that is very
understandable, then
if you are really being able to
understand your own experience,
and you transfer
that, either you
are a mother in your kitchen
and raising kids, at some level,
we each possess a
unique experience.
And if we are able to
transmit that to one another,
at one point, we'll
become better person.
>> Right.
So do you feel that,
actually, the books
that-- whether they're actually
written down like yours
is, "The Wizard of Us,"
our lives are like books.
>> That's right.
>> And so that we are living
that life of the book.
And how is it that
we can achieve
a balance within that life of
this mind, body, and spirit?
>> Well, the thing is this,
is throughout our youth,
we are being-- like I
said-- a bit conditioned,
and we try to reach our
own maturity of adulthood.
The only thing is that, when
you arrive at that point,
you are able to
look back what you
lived since the
beginning of your life.
And at one point, you can
try to deprogram yourself.
You can say, well, I lived that,
but it was not a happy moment.
And some people are doing
rebirths, and going back
into a phase on
the mental level,
just trying to access some
memories that were negative
and try to reprogram them
and put them positive.
And that's a good way
of doing it, you know?
>> You mention in your book that
our negative and our positive
emotions can have a drastic
effect on our lives.
In fact, I think
you even said that,
if a life is full of
negative emotions,
that that is really what
leads us finally to--
>> That kills you.
>> --our aging, and it kills us.
>> That's right.
That's correct.
So one of the major
aspect I treat in my book
is-- like I say, I had
a major in biology.
And the way I was able to
observe, make observation
of the human mankind, I was
able to draw this conclusion,
saying that, if we are
able to shed ourselves
from negative emotion
by being non-attached--
you know all those
books that are
talking about the secret of
letting go, and non-attachment,
and things like that?
They have understand
something the right way.
If you are not
attached, what happens
is that you won't
be able to have
all the rest that goes with it.
And at one point,
that would lead you
to losing your energy by
adding negative emotion.
Let's say you are attached
either to an excess.
Either to money, or to
a consort, or something
like that.
At one point, you will be
able to live jealousy, envy,
and all those things.
And when you live those
negative emotions,
then you are being drained
of your vital energy.
It's like if you're taking
some juice out of the battery.
And at one point, when
the battery's dead,
then you have to pass to
another dimension of living,
but without your physical
body, and come back
until you achieve, one day,
the ability of becoming
pure spirit.
>> So the negative
emotions that we all feel,
it's normal to have the negative
emotions, or it's not normal?
>> Well, it's understandable.
And it's normal in the sense
that we are human nature.
So I think that
our goal is to try
to transcend our human nature.
So the thing is that
it's normal to feel that.
But at one point,
if you become aware,
you won't be able to live
what we call insecurity.
And then you won't
have the attachment,
and then you won't have
the negative emotion,
and then you won't have the
fear that lead to suffering.
And this is what's a
bit what's put forward
in the Buddhist theory.
And they are not
far from reality,
because when you are almighty
knowing, at one point,
you understand so
well the situation
that you won't have
the negative emotion,
and you will only
be able to have
the positive emotion,
which is linked to love,
and happiness, and the
blossoming of the soul,
and all those things.
Good values, as I can see.
If you want to take
just an example,
here, you probably have that
pink insulation during winter.
If you don't insulate your
house quite the right way,
then money's flying out the
windows, because what happens
is that you are
losing all your heat.
So if you know how
to isolate yourself
from the negative emotion
by being non-attached,
what will happen if you
are able to transform that?
Then all the energy
drain that you
used to have will be transformed
and you will accumulate energy.
And at one point, you
will be able to transform
your physical body into
a-- maturing into something
else different that we
didn't really live through
in the history of mankind.
>> So just as we are
abusing our energy sources,
even within the planet, you're
saying that we are also abusing
this source of energy, or
overusing this energy in bad
emotions rather than trying
to store up energy and use it
for positive things.
>> That's right.
>> Well, in your own life, how
do you go about doing that?
If you were faced with
a negative situation,
or a negative person, how
do you manage to store up
the energy to be positive?
>> OK.
So one thing that I have to
just say is that, as I see it,
there's no negative
things that really exist.
There are only experiences
that are technically
imposed on me that
I would not wish,
and that I have to live through.
And the key of all this
to have higher wisdom,
and higher being of state, is to
be able to live those moments,
and to be able to defeat
the invisible enemy that
will try to trash you down.
And at one point, it's like
if you go into a car dealer,
you have the Toyota and
you have the Taurus.
And at one point, you
must win your inner battle
into defeating whatever
is imposed on you.
And if your ability
to do this is great,
then you'll be in a
fast-evolving manner.
And by doing that,
at one point, you
will become yourself
a creator because you
will be able to tap
into your own energy,
and you will be able to let
the wizard go, to set him free.
>> And also, in your book, you
talk a lot about the fact that
the ego is at war, and that--
is it the wizard who
is overcoming the ego?
>> That's a bit that.
The thing is this, is the
wizard exists inside us,
and the ego is the
part of ourself--
like I say in the book.
I make the analysis comparison
like with an iceberg.
The ego part is
the little tip that
goes out over this,
the level of the sea.
The real part of us,
the inner ourself,
are what are underneath
the level of the water.
So the thing is this.
So we have an ego because we
have experience through life,
through childhood and
growth, until we are adult,
a certain number of events.
And some of them are
positive, some of them
are negative, but in a
way that, at one point,
if you are able to take this
wizard and beat the ego,
then you will be able
to become a new spirit.
>> Well, we're going
to take a little break,
and when we come back, we'll
talk a little bit more about
how to deal with this ego
and how to be more aware
of the things in our life.
We'll be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hello, and welcome back
to the "World of Wisdom."
I'm Linda Rachel.
Today we have as our
guest Michel Labréche.
And we're talking about
his new book here,
and it's called
"The Wizard of Us."
Michel, thank you for
coming to visit us.
>> Thank you.
>> One of the things that I
think is very interesting about
your book is that you
speak of the many,
many things that we
have in our world now.
We have so many
books to inform us.
We have so much
information, that--
it's more information
than we can ever take in.
And you talk about the
many, many subjects,
and how it's important to
be knowledgeable in all
those areas.
But what is the most
important thing, you think,
that we need to
know and learn as we
move into the 21st century?
>> The most important thing
would be to be able to listen
to yourself, because, as I
say, we all possess the answers
to all the questions
we are able to ask.
And it's only in the manner
of asking the right question
by being able to observe
the right parameter.
So if you know how to
listen to yourself--
and by doing that, you can try
to filter your mental thoughts.
So some people would do, let's
say, meditation, or yoga,
or things like that,
that would help them
to be in peace with their mind.
And by doing that, you will
be able to focus and to access
this energy that we are made
of, and that origin from what
people call cosmic energy, or
God, or something like that.
>> So in other words, we need
to sometimes come back within
ourselves.
All this information
is around us.
There are many people that
we could go and speak to,
and we'd be so
full of knowledge.
But that inner wisdom really
comes from inside of us.
>> That's right.
>> How do we understand
this difference?
There's a lot of talk
about consciousness
and unconsciousness.
How can we be more conscious
so that we live our lives
in a loving manner,
and in a way that shows
that we care about others?
>> Well, the thing is this,
is that consciousness,
you cannot really buy it.
You have to earn it
in a sense that you
have to listen to yourself.
And the more you do
that, it's like there
will be a split inside
yourself, and the ego part
will be one thing, and then
the spirit or the mind part
will be something else.
Some people say, what is
somebody that is unconscious?
And I say, listen.
Some people swept the
dust under the floor.
And if we don't see it,
then it doesn't exist.
And that's a bit what
I would call somebody
who would be unconscious.
So the thing is this.
If you really know how
to access your own mind,
and really feel the world,
feel with your heart,
feel with your soul, and
feel with your spirit.
We have five senses, and
those five senses really
inform us of our surroundings.
But there's a other
way to be able to tap
into other dimensions.
We see from the infrared
to the ultraviolet,
but there are other worlds
living there that we cannot
access.
>> So we have to listen.
And maybe we can-- we
call this our intuition
that is beyond our five senses?
>> Yes.
The next level of
comprehension would be
to be with a lot of intuition.
But further than
that, at one point,
I see the human
quest for achievement
into becoming pure spirit.
More than to have
only intuition,
it's to be really
connected with the source,
or what people
call God, and to be
able to be creators of the mind,
of the body, and of the soul.
And at one point, what
will happen is that--
like I say on the book--
the wizard has an
open palm of a hand.
And your inner reality is being
projected outside yourself.
So you're creating,
in your surroundings,
whatever you can achieve.
And then you will be able to
experience something that is
very fantastic to live through.
And it will be linked to
compassion, and to sheer will,
and to very I awareness
or creativity.
>> So if we are consciously
thinking thoughts that are
positive thoughts, that are
those thoughts that would help
mankind, that will be very--
we are creating that reality
for ourselves
outside of ourselves.
>> That's right.
>> In your book, you talked
about several things.
You said that a person
who has real faith
is someone that goes
beyond those five senses,
and has a vision that is much
greater than those senses.
And you listed some
17 areas in which
you said that we
should really have
some vision that would bring
us into this consciousness.
Wanted to talk to you a little
bit about some of those things.
One of the first
things you talked about
is that we should
be more observant.
Do you think that, too many
times, we're too active in--
>> Well, we're too much caught
up in our own life that we
spend our time trying
to earn our living.
And by doing that, we are so
much entangled in life itself
that one thing that
happens is, you are 70,
you're 80 years old,
and you say, my God,
I'm going to die soon.
Is there something afterward--
the afterworld, or what?
So while you're
younger, you should
be able to more try to
connect with your inside
and feel the world, like I say.
And if you know how to
ask the right question,
you will have the answer
because it's in the question.
>> Well, I know they say
that we should stop and smell
the flowers.
And so this is a part of it, is
being a little bit more aware
of what's going on around you.
Actually seeing that other
person who's hurting,
and being able to feel
what they're going through.
>> That's correct.
>> Right.
Well, another area
that you talked about
was that, to be infused
by the universal spirit.
What do you mean by that?
>> Well, the thing is this.
It's like, we all are a part
of that primal spark that
created the world.
And because we are
nourished by that energy,
if we knew how to
be enthused by that,
we would really be able to
set our wizard free and become
creators ourself.
And you become like Picassos
or people like that.
Great creators in any field.
It can be science.
It can be art.
It can be anything.
Somebody that will
have intuition
into creating something new
in any subject, any field.
>> So it doesn't matter
whether we're a biologist,
whether a photographer.
Whatever it is that
our field of endeavor
is, that if we are tuning into
that energy, that it makes
us become everything that we
have the potential to become.
>> That's right.
We all have a personal
passion, or a personal talent.
And if we know
how to exploit it,
we will be able to invent
new techniques or whatever
that will make us special,
and that other person will
be able to share this together.
>> Well, do you think that it's
possible to remain neutral--
>> We have to.
>> Sometimes it's very
difficult, but we have to.
The more we are positively
or negatively enhanced,
we will react.
And we'll probably have
a negative emotion,
and then all the
rest will follow.
So the things that whenever
you live, and you undergo
a special event
in your life, try
to remain neutral and try
not to have a reaction to it.
And by just saying, what
really happened here?
Like we were talking prior,
and we had some people saying,
well, I saw angels.
I saw a spaceship, or whatever.
And some people will start a
religion after seeing an angel.
And the things that, what
really was the event,
and try to remain neutral.
That's important.
>> So it's what happens
after that event,
how it changes your life, how
you treat people after that.
>> That's right.
>> OK.
There are many other things
that we could speak about
within your book, but I
think one of the things
that I thought was important
was the fact that you
said we should forgive people.
Do you think this is something
that's difficult for us
to do as human beings?
>> It is.
The only thing is that if you
don't know how to forgive,
then you will be caught up
with a link with the person
you don't want to forgive.
And then the link will
create something inside,
and will eat you up inside.
So when I say you
have to forgive,
is that if somebody makes
you angry or whatever,
or there's a negative event
coming to you, to that person,
then you have to let go.
And let go means remain
neutral, but at one
point, to have no attachment.
So if you don't
know how to forgive,
then you will be linked.
And then it will create
something very bad
inside yourself.
>> Thank you so
much for joining us.
Hope you'll come back soon.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you for joining
us, you our viewers,
and we hope that you'll come
back to the "World of Wisdom."
[MUSIC PLAYING]